developerguide/device-certs-your-own.md, before:

# Use Your Own Certificate<a name="device-certs-your-own"></a>

To use your own X\.509 certificates, you must register a CA certificate with AWS IoT\. The CA certificate can then be used to sign device certificates\. You can register up to 10 CA certificates with the same subject field per AWS account per region\. This allows you to have more than one CA sign your device certificates\.

**Note**  
Device certificates must be signed by the registered CA certificate\. It is common for a CA certificate to be used to create an intermediate CA certificate\. If you are using an intermediate certificate to sign your device certificates, you must register the intermediate CA certificate\. Use the AWS IoT root CA certificate when you connect to AWS IoT even if you register your own root CA certificate\. The AWS IoT root CA certificate is used by a device to verify the identity of the AWS IoT servers\. 


+ [Registering Your CA Certificate](#register-CA-cert)
+ [Creating a Device Certificate Using Your CA Certificate](#create-device-cert)
+ [Registering a Device Certificate](#register-device-cert)
+ [Registering Device Certificates Manually](#manual-cert-registration)
+ [Using Automatic/Just\-in\-Time Registration for Device Certificates](#auto-register-device-cert)
+ [Deactivate the CA Certificate](#deactivate-ca-cert)
+ [Revoke the Device Certificate](#revoke-ca-cert)

If you do not have a CA certificate, you can use [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) tools to create one\.

**To create a CA certificate**

1. Generate a key pair\.

   ```
   openssl genrsa -out rootCA.key 2048
   ```

1. Use the private key from the key pair to generate a CA certificate\.

   ```
   openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key rootCA.key -sha256 -days 1024 -out rootCA.pem
   ```

## Registering Your CA Certificate<a name="register-CA-cert"></a>

To register your CA certificate, you must:

+ Get a registration code from AWS IoT\.

+ Sign a private key verification certificate with your CA certificate\.

+ Pass your CA certificate and a private key verification certificate to the `register-ca-certificate` CLI command\.

  The `Common Name` field in the private key verification certificate must be set to the registration code generated by the `get-registration-code` CLI command\. A single registration code is generated per AWS account\. You can use the `register-ca-certificate` command or the AWS IoT console to register CA certificates\.

**Note**  
A CA certificate cannot be registered to more than one account in the same region\. However, a CA certificate can be registered to more than one account if the accounts are in different regions\.

**To register a CA certificate**

1. Get a registration code from AWS IoT\. This code is used as the `Common Name` of the private key verification certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot get-registration-code
   ```

1. Generate a key pair for the private key verification certificate\.

   ```
   openssl genrsa -out verificationCert.key 2048
   ```

1. Create a CSR for the private key verification certificate\. Set the `Common Name` field of the certificate to your registration code\.

   ```
   openssl req -new -key verificationCert.key -out verificationCert.csr
   ```

   You are prompted for some information, including the `Common Name`, for the certificate\.

   ```
   Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:
   State or Province Name (full name) []:
   Locality Name (for example, city) []:
   Organization Name (for example, company) []:
   Organizational Unit Name (for example, section) []:
   Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []:XXXXXXXXXXXXMYREGISTRATIONCODEXXXXXX 
   Email Address []:
   ```

1. Use the CSR to create a private key verification certificate\.

   ```
   openssl x509 -req -in verificationCert.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -CAcreateserial -out verificationCert.pem -days 500 -sha256
   ```

1. Register the CA certificate with AWS IoT\. Pass in the CA certificate and the private key verification certificate to the `register-ca-certificate` CLI command\.

   ```
   aws iot register-ca-certificate --ca-certificate file://rootCA.pem --verification-cert file://verificationCert.pem  
   ```

1. Use the `update-certificate` CLI command to activate the CA certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot update-ca-certificate --certificate-id xxxxxxxxxxx --new-status ACTIVE
   ```

## Creating a Device Certificate Using Your CA Certificate<a name="create-device-cert"></a>

You can use a CA certificate registered with AWS IoT to create a device certificate\. The device certificate must be registered with AWS IoT before use\.

**To create a device certificate**

1. Generate a key pair\.

   ```
   openssl genrsa -out deviceCert.key 2048
   ```

1. Create a CSR for the device certificate\.

   ```
   openssl req -new -key deviceCert.key -out deviceCert.csr
   ```

   You are prompted for some information, as shown here\.

   ```
   Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:
   State or Province Name (full name) []:
   Locality Name (for example, city) []:
   Organization Name (for example, company) []:
   Organizational Unit Name (for example, section) []:
   Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []:
   Email Address []:
   ```

1. Create a device certificate from the CSR\.

   ```
   openssl x509 -req -in deviceCert.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -CAcreateserial -out deviceCert.pem -days 500 -sha256
   ```
**Note**  
You must use the CA certificate registered with AWS IoT to create device certificates\. If you have more than one CA certificate \(with the same subject field and public key\) registered in your AWS account, you must specify the CA certificate used to create the device certificate when you register your device certificate\.

1. Register a device certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot register-certificate --certificate-pem file://deviceCert.pem --ca-certificate-pem file://rootCA.pem
   ```

1. Use the `update-certificate` CLI command to activate the device certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot update-certificate --certificate-id xxxxxxxxxxx --new-status ACTIVE
   ```

## Registering a Device Certificate<a name="register-device-cert"></a>

You must use the CA certificate registered with AWS IoT to sign device certificates\. If you have more than one CA certificate \(with the same subject field and public key\) registered in your AWS account, you must specify the CA certificate used to sign the device certificate when you register your device certificate\. You can register each device certificate manually, or you can use automatic registration, which allows devices to register their certificate when they connect to AWS IoT for the first time\.

## Registering Device Certificates Manually<a name="manual-cert-registration"></a>

Use the following CLI command to register a device certificate:

```
aws iot register-certificate --certificate-pem file://deviceCert.crt --ca-certificate-pem file://caCert.crt
```

## Using Automatic/Just\-in\-Time Registration for Device Certificates<a name="auto-register-device-cert"></a>

To register device certificates automatically when devices first connect to AWS IoT, you must enable automatic registration for your CA certificate\. This registers any device certificate signed by your CA certificate when it connects to AWS IoT\. 

### Enable Automatic Registration<a name="enable-auto-registration"></a>

Use the `update-ca-certificate` API to set the `auto-registration-status` of the CA certificate to `ENABLE`:

```
$ aws iot update-ca-certificate --certificate-id caCertificateId --new-auto-registration-status ENABLE
```

You can also set the `auto-registration-status` to `ENABLE` when you use the `register-ca-certificate` API to register your CA certificate: 

```
aws iot register-ca-certificate --ca-certificate file://rootCA.pem --verification-cert file://privateKeyVerificationCert.crt --allow-auto-registration 
```

When a device first attempts to connect to AWS IoT, as part of the TLS handshake, it must present a registered CA certificate and a device certificate\. AWS IoT recognizes the CA certificate as a registered CA certificate and automatically registers the device certificate and sets its status to `PENDING_ACTIVATION`\. This means that the device certificate was automatically registered and is awaiting activation\. A certificate must be in the ACTIVE state before it can be used to connect to AWS IoT\. When AWS IoT automatically registers a certificate or when a certificate in PENDING\_ACTIVATION status connects, AWS IoT publishes a message to the following MQTT topic:

```
$aws/events/certificates/registered/caCertificateID
```

Where `caCertificateID` is the ID of the CA certificate that issued the device certificate\.

The message published to this topic has the following structure:

```
{
    "certificateId": "certificateID",
    "caCertificateId": "caCertificateId",
    "timestamp": timestamp,
    "certificateStatus": "PENDING_ACTIVATION",
    "awsAccountId": "awsAccountId",
    "certificateRegistrationTimestamp": "certificateRegistrationTimestamp"
}
```

You can create a rule that listens on this topic and performs some actions\. We recommend that you create a Lambda rule that verifies the device certificate is not on a certificate revocation list \(CRL\), activates the certificate, and creates and attaches a policy to the certificate\. The policy determines which resources the device is able to access\. For more information about how to create a Lambda rule that listens on the `$aws/events/certificates/registered/caCertificateID` topic and performs these actions, see [Just\-in\-Time Registration](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/iot/just-in-time-registration-of-device-certificates-on-aws-iot/)\.

## Deactivate the CA Certificate<a name="deactivate-ca-cert"></a>

When you register a device certificate, AWS checks if the associated CA certificate is `ACTIVE`\. If the CA certificate is `INACTIVE`, AWS IoT does not allow the device certificate to be registered\. By marking the CA certificate as INACTIVE, you prevent any new device certificates issued by the compromised CA to be registered in your account\. You can use the `update-ca-certificate` API to deactivate the CA certificate:

```
$ aws iot update-ca-certificate --certificate-id certificateId --new-status INACTIVE
```

**Note**  
 Any registered device certificates that were signed by the compromised CA certificate continue to work until you explicitly revoke them\.

Use the `ListCertificatesByCA` API to get a list of all registered device certificates that were signed by the compromised CA\. For each device certificate signed by the compromised CA certificate, use the `UpdateCertificate` API to revoke the device certificate to prevent it from being used\. 

## Revoke the Device Certificate<a name="revoke-ca-cert"></a>

If you detect suspicious activity on a registered device certificate, you can use the `update-certificate` API to revoke it:

```
 $ aws iot update-certificate --certificate-id certificateId
                            --new-status REVOKED
```

If any error or exception occurs during the auto\-registration of the device certificates, AWS IoT sends events or messages to your logs in CloudWatch Logs\. For more information about setting up the logs for your account, see the [Amazon CloudWatch documentation](http://alpha-docs-aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/DeveloperGuide/)\.

Commit message:

Clarified combing certs for auto registration
Added clarification about how to combine certificates needed for auto registration.

developerguide/device-certs-your-own.md, after:

# Use Your Own Certificate<a name="device-certs-your-own"></a>

To use your own X\.509 certificates, you must register a CA certificate with AWS IoT\. The CA certificate can then be used to sign device certificates\. You can register up to 10 CA certificates with the same subject field per AWS account per region\. This allows you to have more than one CA sign your device certificates\.

**Note**  
Device certificates must be signed by the registered CA certificate\. It is common for a CA certificate to be used to create an intermediate CA certificate\. If you are using an intermediate certificate to sign your device certificates, you must register the intermediate CA certificate\. Use the AWS IoT root CA certificate when you connect to AWS IoT even if you register your own root CA certificate\. The AWS IoT root CA certificate is used by a device to verify the identity of the AWS IoT servers\. 


+ [Registering Your CA Certificate](#register-CA-cert)
+ [Creating a Device Certificate Using Your CA Certificate](#create-device-cert)
+ [Registering a Device Certificate](#register-device-cert)
+ [Registering Device Certificates Manually](#manual-cert-registration)
+ [Using Automatic/Just\-in\-Time Registration for Device Certificates](#auto-register-device-cert)
+ [Deactivate the CA Certificate](#deactivate-ca-cert)
+ [Revoke the Device Certificate](#revoke-ca-cert)

If you do not have a CA certificate, you can use [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) tools to create one\.

**To create a CA certificate**

1. Generate a key pair\.

   ```
   openssl genrsa -out rootCA.key 2048
   ```

1. Use the private key from the key pair to generate a CA certificate\.

   ```
   openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key rootCA.key -sha256 -days 1024 -out rootCA.pem
   ```

## Registering Your CA Certificate<a name="register-CA-cert"></a>

To register your CA certificate, you must:

+ Get a registration code from AWS IoT\.

+ Sign a private key verification certificate with your CA certificate\.

+ Pass your CA certificate and a private key verification certificate to the `register-ca-certificate` CLI command\.

  The `Common Name` field in the private key verification certificate must be set to the registration code generated by the `get-registration-code` CLI command\. A single registration code is generated per AWS account\. You can use the `register-ca-certificate` command or the AWS IoT console to register CA certificates\.

**Note**  
A CA certificate cannot be registered to more than one account in the same region\. However, a CA certificate can be registered to more than one account if the accounts are in different regions\.

**To register a CA certificate**

1. Get a registration code from AWS IoT\. This code is used as the `Common Name` of the private key verification certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot get-registration-code
   ```

1. Generate a key pair for the private key verification certificate\.

   ```
   openssl genrsa -out verificationCert.key 2048
   ```

1. Create a CSR for the private key verification certificate\. Set the `Common Name` field of the certificate to your registration code\.

   ```
   openssl req -new -key verificationCert.key -out verificationCert.csr
   ```

   You are prompted for some information, including the `Common Name`, for the certificate\.

   ```
   Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:
   State or Province Name (full name) []:
   Locality Name (for example, city) []:
   Organization Name (for example, company) []:
   Organizational Unit Name (for example, section) []:
   Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []:XXXXXXXXXXXXMYREGISTRATIONCODEXXXXXX 
   Email Address []:
   ```

1. Use the CSR to create a private key verification certificate\.

   ```
   openssl x509 -req -in verificationCert.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -CAcreateserial -out verificationCert.pem -days 500 -sha256
   ```

1. Register the CA certificate with AWS IoT\. Pass in the CA certificate and the private key verification certificate to the `register-ca-certificate` CLI command\.

   ```
   aws iot register-ca-certificate --ca-certificate file://rootCA.pem --verification-cert file://verificationCert.pem  
   ```

1. Use the `update-certificate` CLI command to activate the CA certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot update-ca-certificate --certificate-id xxxxxxxxxxx --new-status ACTIVE
   ```

## Creating a Device Certificate Using Your CA Certificate<a name="create-device-cert"></a>

You can use a CA certificate registered with AWS IoT to create a device certificate\. The device certificate must be registered with AWS IoT before use\.

**To create a device certificate**

1. Generate a key pair\.

   ```
   openssl genrsa -out deviceCert.key 2048
   ```

1. Create a CSR for the device certificate\.

   ```
   openssl req -new -key deviceCert.key -out deviceCert.csr
   ```

   You are prompted for some information, as shown here\.

   ```
   Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:
   State or Province Name (full name) []:
   Locality Name (for example, city) []:
   Organization Name (for example, company) []:
   Organizational Unit Name (for example, section) []:
   Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []:
   Email Address []:
   ```

1. Create a device certificate from the CSR\.

   ```
   openssl x509 -req -in deviceCert.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -CAcreateserial -out deviceCert.pem -days 500 -sha256
   ```
1. (Required for [auto-registration](#auto-register-device-cert)) Create a certificate file that contains the device certificate and your CA certificate. Here is the Linux command:

   ```
   cat deviceCert.crt sampleCACertificate.pem > deviceCertAndCACert.crt
   ```
   
   Use ```deviceCertAndCACert.crt``` as the device certificate when connecting to AWS IoT. It is important to note that to connect to AWS IoT you will need to use the AWS IoT root certificate to verify the servers identity. You can find that certificate [here](https://www.amazontrust.com/repository/AmazonRootCA1.pem). By combining your own CA certificate and the newly generate certificate in the device certificate AWS IoT will be able to identify your own CA and autoregister the newly generated certificate.
   
**Note**  
You must use the CA certificate registered with AWS IoT to create device certificates\. If you have more than one CA certificate \(with the same subject field and public key\) registered in your AWS account, you must specify the CA certificate used to create the device certificate when you register your device certificate\.

1. Register a device certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot register-certificate --certificate-pem file://deviceCert.pem --ca-certificate-pem file://rootCA.pem
   ```

1. Use the `update-certificate` CLI command to activate the device certificate\.

   ```
   aws iot update-certificate --certificate-id xxxxxxxxxxx --new-status ACTIVE
   ```

## Registering a Device Certificate<a name="register-device-cert"></a>

You must use the CA certificate registered with AWS IoT to sign device certificates\. If you have more than one CA certificate \(with the same subject field and public key\) registered in your AWS account, you must specify the CA certificate used to sign the device certificate when you register your device certificate\. You can register each device certificate manually, or you can use automatic registration, which allows devices to register their certificate when they connect to AWS IoT for the first time\.

## Registering Device Certificates Manually<a name="manual-cert-registration"></a>

Use the following CLI command to register a device certificate:

```
aws iot register-certificate --certificate-pem file://deviceCert.crt --ca-certificate-pem file://caCert.crt
```

## Using Automatic/Just\-in\-Time Registration for Device Certificates<a name="auto-register-device-cert"></a>

To register device certificates automatically when devices first connect to AWS IoT, you must enable automatic registration for your CA certificate\. This registers any device certificate signed by your CA certificate when it connects to AWS IoT\. 

### Enable Automatic Registration<a name="enable-auto-registration"></a>

Use the `update-ca-certificate` API to set the `auto-registration-status` of the CA certificate to `ENABLE`:

```
$ aws iot update-ca-certificate --certificate-id caCertificateId --new-auto-registration-status ENABLE
```

You can also set the `auto-registration-status` to `ENABLE` when you use the `register-ca-certificate` API to register your CA certificate: 

```
aws iot register-ca-certificate --ca-certificate file://rootCA.pem --verification-cert file://privateKeyVerificationCert.crt --allow-auto-registration 
```

When a device first attempts to connect to AWS IoT, as part of the TLS handshake, it must present a registered CA certificate and a device certificate\. AWS IoT recognizes the CA certificate as a registered CA certificate and automatically registers the device certificate and sets its status to `PENDING_ACTIVATION`\. This means that the device certificate was automatically registered and is awaiting activation\. A certificate must be in the ACTIVE state before it can be used to connect to AWS IoT\. When AWS IoT automatically registers a certificate or when a certificate in PENDING\_ACTIVATION status connects, AWS IoT publishes a message to the following MQTT topic:

```
$aws/events/certificates/registered/caCertificateID
```

Where `caCertificateID` is the ID of the CA certificate that issued the device certificate\.

The message published to this topic has the following structure:

```
{
    "certificateId": "certificateID",
    "caCertificateId": "caCertificateId",
    "timestamp": timestamp,
    "certificateStatus": "PENDING_ACTIVATION",
    "awsAccountId": "awsAccountId",
    "certificateRegistrationTimestamp": "certificateRegistrationTimestamp"
}
```

You can create a rule that listens on this topic and performs some actions\. We recommend that you create a Lambda rule that verifies the device certificate is not on a certificate revocation list \(CRL\), activates the certificate, and creates and attaches a policy to the certificate\. The policy determines which resources the device is able to access\. For more information about how to create a Lambda rule that listens on the `$aws/events/certificates/registered/caCertificateID` topic and performs these actions, see [Just\-in\-Time Registration](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/iot/just-in-time-registration-of-device-certificates-on-aws-iot/)\.

## Deactivate the CA Certificate<a name="deactivate-ca-cert"></a>

When you register a device certificate, AWS checks if the associated CA certificate is `ACTIVE`\. If the CA certificate is `INACTIVE`, AWS IoT does not allow the device certificate to be registered\. By marking the CA certificate as INACTIVE, you prevent any new device certificates issued by the compromised CA to be registered in your account\. You can use the `update-ca-certificate` API to deactivate the CA certificate:

```
$ aws iot update-ca-certificate --certificate-id certificateId --new-status INACTIVE
```

**Note**  
 Any registered device certificates that were signed by the compromised CA certificate continue to work until you explicitly revoke them\.

Use the `ListCertificatesByCA` API to get a list of all registered device certificates that were signed by the compromised CA\. For each device certificate signed by the compromised CA certificate, use the `UpdateCertificate` API to revoke the device certificate to prevent it from being used\. 

## Revoke the Device Certificate<a name="revoke-ca-cert"></a>

If you detect suspicious activity on a registered device certificate, you can use the `update-certificate` API to revoke it:

```
 $ aws iot update-certificate --certificate-id certificateId
                            --new-status REVOKED
```

If any error or exception occurs during the auto\-registration of the device certificates, AWS IoT sends events or messages to your logs in CloudWatch Logs\. For more information about setting up the logs for your account, see the [Amazon CloudWatch documentation](http://alpha-docs-aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/DeveloperGuide/)\.
