developerguide/security.md, before:

# Security in AWS IoT<a name="security"></a>

Cloud security at AWS is the highest priority\. As an AWS customer, you benefit from a data center and network architecture that is built to meet the requirements of the most security\-sensitive organizations\.

Security is a shared responsibility between AWS and you\. The [shared responsibility model](http://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/) describes this as security *of* the cloud and security *in* the cloud:
+ **Security of the cloud** – AWS is responsible for protecting the infrastructure that runs AWS services in the AWS Cloud\. AWS also provides you with services that you can use securely\. Third\-party auditors regularly test and verify the effectiveness of our security as part of the [AWS compliance programs](http://aws.amazon.com/compliance/programs/)\. To learn about the compliance programs that apply to AWS IoT, see [AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program](http://aws.amazon.com/compliance/services-in-scope/)\.
+ **Security in the cloud** – Your responsibility is determined by the AWS service that you use\. You are also responsible for other factors including the sensitivity of your data, your company’s requirements, and applicable laws and regulations\. 

This documentation helps you understand how to apply the shared responsibility model when using AWS IoT\. The following topics show you how to configure AWS IoT to meet your security and compliance objectives\. You also learn how to use other AWS services that help you to monitor and secure your AWS IoT resources\. 

**Topics**
+ [AWS IoT Security](iot-security.md)
+ [Authentication](authentication.md)
+ [Managing Device Certs](managing-device-certs.md)
+ [Authorization](iot-authorization.md)
+ [Data Protection in AWS IoT Core](data-protection.md)
+ [Identity and Access Management for AWS IoT](security-iam.md)
+ [Logging and Monitoring with AWS IoT Core](monitoring_overview.md)
+ [Compliance Validation for AWS IoT Core](SERVICENAME-compliance.md)
+ [Resilience in AWS IoT Core](disaster-recovery-resiliency.md)
+ [Infrastructure Security in AWS IoT](infrastructure-security.md)
+ [Vulnerability Analysis and Management in AWS IoT Core](vulnerability-analysis-and-management.md)
+ [Security Best Practices in AWS IoT Core](security-best-practices.md)

Commit message:

refreshing Iot Core content on GitHub

developerguide/security.md, after:

# Security in AWS IoT<a name="security"></a>

Cloud security at AWS is the highest priority\. As an AWS customer, you benefit from a data center and network architecture that is built to meet the requirements of the most security\-sensitive organizations\.

Security is a shared responsibility between AWS and you\. The [shared responsibility model](http://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model/) describes this as security *of* the cloud and security *in* the cloud:
+ **Security of the cloud** – AWS is responsible for protecting the infrastructure that runs AWS services in the AWS Cloud\. AWS also provides you with services that you can use securely\. Third\-party auditors regularly test and verify the effectiveness of our security as part of the [AWS compliance programs](http://aws.amazon.com/compliance/programs/)\. To learn about the compliance programs that apply to AWS IoT, see [AWS Services in Scope by Compliance Program](http://aws.amazon.com/compliance/services-in-scope/)\.
+ **Security in the cloud** – Your responsibility is determined by the AWS service that you use\. You are also responsible for other factors including the sensitivity of your data, your company's requirements, and applicable laws and regulations\. 

This documentation helps you understand how to apply the shared responsibility model when using AWS IoT\. The following topics show you how to configure AWS IoT to meet your security and compliance objectives\. You also learn how to use other AWS services that help you to monitor and secure your AWS IoT resources\. 

**Topics**
+ [AWS IoT Security](iot-security.md)
+ [Authentication](authentication.md)
+ [Managing Device Certs](managing-device-certs.md)
+ [Authorization](iot-authorization.md)
+ [Data Protection in](data-protection.md)
+ [Identity and Access Management for AWS IoT](security-iam.md)
+ [Logging and Monitoring with AWS IoT Core](monitoring_overview.md)
+ [Compliance Validation for AWS IoT Core](SERVICENAME-compliance.md)
+ [Resilience in AWS IoT Core](disaster-recovery-resiliency.md)
+ [Infrastructure Security in AWS IoT](infrastructure-security.md)
+ [Vulnerability Analysis and Management in AWS IoT Core](vulnerability-analysis-and-management.md)
+ [Security Best Practices in](security-best-practices.md)
+ [AWS Training and Certification](#iot-security-training)

## AWS Training and Certification<a name="iot-security-training"></a>

Take the following course to learn about key concepts for AWS IoT security: [AWS IoT Security Primer](https://www.aws.training/Details/Curriculum?id=42304)\.
